The simulation behind STAKEOUT is by far the most computationally expensive part of the game. It is designed with a principal of progressive growth. At first, very few entities are simulated. This is best understood with an example:

At the very start of the game, there are no simulated entities. The player is sitting at home waiting for a call for a case to start. The simulation realizes that the player has no case to solve, so a case is generated.

First, it will generate the type of crime that is going to be committed. Let's say it's a murder. The simulation will use a template for that crime to begin generation.

There needs to be a criminal, so a Person is generated. This person is generated with many attributes - their height, weight, race, eye color, blood type, fingerprint, etc. This person is flagged as Critical. Critical entities are "part of the crime". As part of generating a person, other Persons need to be created as well - their friends and enemies. So a series of additional Persons are created. These people are "first degree" entities - one degree off of critical - they aren't directly part of the crime (yet), but they serve as a way to make the world around the Critical entities feel "alive". Of course, those people also have acquaintances, but because they are first degree people, we won't generate their acquaintances yet because they are not likely to be important to the story.

The pereptrator will also have a "home" Location generated for them. This will create a Home location, which is located in a City entity. It will have x/y coordinates of the location within the city map. The same is true of all the other first degree people. The perp will have a "work" location generated, that "work" location will have coworker people generated, etc.

Eventually, a motive will be generated. Let's say the motive is simple: they're serial killer, so they simply want to kill someone who is female and under the age of 25. The game will use the Crime template to generate candidate victims. The simulation will progress, with the killer having goals and executing them: acquire a murder weapon, observe a local park for joggers, etc. The Perps movements throught the city, as well as all other simulated People, is handled in real time. The player meanwhile is fast forwarding time waiting for a crime call. Eventually the perp kills a victim, which flags the victim as Critical. As soon as they are flagged as critical, the simulation "backfills" a history for them, generating a workplace for them, a home, a reason they were in the park the night of the murder, etc. In this way the game only simulates critical entitites and the entities they are interacting with or "near."